---
tags: [Anti money laundering, Fraud prevention, KYC, KYT, Risk profiling, User profiling, KYB]
internal: true
---

# 4. Pulse: Dynamic Risk Scoring

## About this document

This document is prepared for Flagright customers and prospects, who are using or interested in using the Flagright Pulse product. Pulse is a dynamic risk scoring engine. The document provides a high level overview of the components, configuration options, levers, and underlying complexities to communicate the value proposition and capabilities. Feel free to reach out to your sales representative or hello\[at]flagright.com if you have any questions that's not addressed by this document.

## Introduction

Pulse automates and streamlines the user risk assessment process with an API-first approach and enables operational teams with a no code interface on Flagright Console. The system accommodates B2B and B2C use cases with flexible risk rating algorithms defined by customers. It also enables real-time risk level updates across all variables including country risk score, user age risk, payment method risk, business industry risk and so forth.

## Overview

### Terminology

- Tenant: Flagright's customer (From here on the term "Tenant" is adopted throughout this document)
- Account: A user of a tenant. E.g. compliance analyst
- User: A consumer or business user of tenant
- Flagright Console: Flagright's easy-to-use, no-code back office portal enabling compliance teams to do more with less.
- KYC: [Know your customer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Know_your_customer)
- SME: Small-medium enterprise and/or Business
- Risk score: The score from zero (0) to hundred (100) that denotes the risk level mathematically. All risk levels have a corresponding risk score to be used in algorithms enabling numerical assessment and categorization of risk.
- KYC risk score: Calculated using user’s personal attributes that doesn't change often or changes slowly over time such as age, nationality, country of residence, business type etc. It doesn’t do KYC for you, but it uses the data obtained from your KYC process.

> ```
> We offer ID verification and KYC services with our partners ComplyAdvantage, TRM Labs, Sumsub, and Ondato. Learn more at https://flagright.com/#contact.
> ```

- Action risk score: Calculated using a user's behavior for each transaction and/or action. This can also include generic actions and events such as login attempts etc.
- Dynamic risk score: This is the most important score. It's calculated using a user’s KYC risk and consecutive action risk combined as a time series algorithm. Tenants can configure the risk algorithms that determine DRS with different variables and weights.

### System Defaults

The DRS system uses variables and risk values as defined by tenants. All system inputs are customizable and configurable on demand by accounts self-serving on Flagright Console. Retail and Business users can be configured differently at the same time. All system defaults come pre-configured but all of them are configurable without any support or coding on Flagright Console. All risk level changes become effective instantly. Current list of risk variables are defined as follows:

- Country risk level: A list of all countries with an assigned risk score for each country. Applies for nationality and country of residence, both can be configured independently. Also applies for UBOs of SMEs. E.g. Lithuania = Low Risk
- Individual age risk level: A list of age intervals with an assigned risk score for each age interval. E.g. 18-21 years old = High Risk
- Business age risk level: A list of age intervals with an assigned risk score for each age interval. E.g. 0-1 years old = Very High Risk
- Business industry risk level: Based on the industry of the business. E.g. Construction = High Risk
- Payment method risk level: Based on the payment method used. E.g. cash = High Risk
- Payout method risk level: Based on the payout method used. E.g. IBAN = Very Low Risk
- Receiver merchant risk level: Based on the risk level of the receiver if it’s a known business. E.g. Amazon = Very Low Risk
- Risk score and risk classification table: This table lets tenants define how mathematical are interpreted as a risk level. This gives the granular control for risk appetite at user level. Higher risk score means higher risk.

### Quantification of Risk

In order to calculate risk algorithmically, Pulse quantifies the risk level in numerical values. We call this value "risk score". This value is configurable by the accounts and uses the following default setup:

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>Risk Level
   </td>
   <td>Risk Score
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Very High Risk
   </td>
   <td>100
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>High Risk
   </td>
   <td>75
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Medium Risk
   </td>
   <td>50
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Low Risk
   </td>
   <td>25
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Very Low Risk
   </td>
   <td>0
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Classification of Risk Score

In order to display a risk level based on DRS algorithm's numerical outputs, we must interpret the numerical values as categorical risk levels. This table is configurable by accounts and uses the following default setup:

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>Risk Score From
   </td>
   <td>Risk Score To
   </td>
   <td>Assign Risk Level
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>100 &lt;=
   </td>
   <td>&lt; 75
   </td>
   <td>Very High Risk
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>75 &lt;=
   </td>
   <td>&lt; 50
   </td>
   <td>High Risk
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>50 &lt;=
   </td>
   <td>&lt; 25
   </td>
   <td>Medium Risk
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>25 &lt;=
   </td>
   <td>&lt; 15
   </td>
   <td>Low Risk
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>15 &lt;=
   </td>
   <td>&lt;= 0
   </td>
   <td>Very Low Risk
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### KYC Risk Score (KRS)

This is a mathematical formula with weights and variables that helps calculate the risk score of a given user based on pre-defined risk profiles by tenants. The algorithm is configurable by tenants.

Sample KRS algorithm for Consumer/Retail user:

```json
KRS = avg [ cRes + nat + age ]

where:

cRes: Country of residence risk

nat: Country of nationality risk

age: age group risk
```

> This logic is easily extensible and configurable by tenants.

Sample SME KRS algorithm:

```json
KRS = avg [ avg {cReg + avg(directorNAT) + avg(uboNAT) } + rAGE + bizDomain ]

where:
cReg: Business country of registration risk
directorNat: average risk score of director nationalities
uboNat: average risk score of UBO nationalities
rAge: Business age risk
bizDomain: Risk of the business operating industry
```

### Action Risk Score (ARS)

This is a mathematical formula with weights and variables that helps calculate the risk score of a given action or transaction based on the pre-defined risk profiles by tenants. The algorithm is configurable.

ARS<sub>i</sub> = avg \[ rORG<sub>i</sub> + rDES<sub>i</sub> + rMET<sub>i</sub> + rMER<sub>i</sub> + rPOMET<sub>i</sub> + amount]

```json
where:

rORG: payment origin country risk

rDES: payment destination country risk

rMER: Receiver merchant risk

rMET: payment method risk

rPOMET: Receiving payment method risk (payout method)

Amount: Transaction amount risk
```

> This logic is easily extensible and configurable by tenants.

### Dynamic Risk Score (DRS)

This is a mathematical formula with weights and variables that helps calculate the dynamic risk score as a time series algorithm based evaluating both KRS and ARS in tandem. The algorithm is configurable by tenants.

Assume ARS<sub>i</sub> where i = 1,..., n and it’s the i’th transaction that a user is making at a given time.

DRS<sub>i</sub> = avg (KRS + DRS<sub>i-1</sub> + ARS<sub>i</sub> ) <sub>i</sub> = avg (KRS + DRS<sub>i-1</sub> + ARS<sub>i</sub> )

DRS<sub>0</sub> = KRS

DRS<sub>1</sub> = avg ( KRS + ARS<sub>1</sub> )

DRS<sub>2</sub> = avg ( KRS + DRS<sub>1</sub> + ARS<sub>2</sub> )

## Benefits & Differentiators

Flagright Pulse gives tenants the ability to assess the risk level of users based on their behavior and not only what’s visible on their documents. It lets tenants enable their users that are transparent and compliant, while proactively managing the risk for more risky profiles and behaviors.

Pulse provides maximum value when it’s used in combination with the [Beacon](https://docs.flagright.com/docs/flagright-api/933f8b951b938-3-beacon-real-time-aml-and-fraud-transaction-monitoring). The combination of the two enables tenants to fork rules at a more granular level by customizing thresholds based on the risk level for each rule. An example is as follows:

Imagine there is a Proof of Funds rule that triggers at certain payment amounts. Combined with DRS, tenants can build a user-friendly logic to enable their good users in a much more user-friendly way while protecting the business against risk exposure.

Instead of creating a single Proof of Funds rule with a single thresholds that applies to all users including good ones, tenants can now enable them in a much more user-friendly way. That leads to:

- Fewer false positives
- Fewer number of suspensions
- Increased revenue and LTV/CLV
- increased user satisfaction
- Reduced operational costs
- Increased operational efficiency

Feel free to reach out for more questions at [hello@flagright.com](mailto:hello\[at]flagright.com).
