---
internal: true
---

# 6. Using Flagright modules independently

Flagright offers three modules to enable startups manage risk appetite in real-time and grow revenue while maintaining the integrity and reputation of the business. These modules work the best when used in an integrated manner as a full suite. However, each module can be deployed independently and can deliver extreme performance as a standalone product.

## Terminology

- Tenant: Flagright's customer (From here on the term "Tenant" is adopted throughout this document)
- Account: A user of a tenant. E.g. compliance analyst
- User: A consumer or business user of tenant
- Flagright Console: Flagright's easy-to-use, no-code back office portal enabling compliance teams to do more with less.
- KYC: [Know your customer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Know_your_customer)

## Using Beacon Only

Tenants can choose to use [Beacon](https://docs.flagright.com/docs/flagright-api/ZG9jOjQxNDY3MTA5-3-beacon-real-time-aml-and-fraud-transaction-monitoring) only without leveraging the rest of the Flagright offerings. Flagright API is flexible when it comes to accommodating your own risk score per user or transaction and you can leverage them while you are setting up your rules.

While you will have access to all rules available in the rules library, some rules might not be available depending on the type and amount of data you provide via Flagright API. To get the best results, we recommend publishing user, device, transaction events via Flagright API.

## Using Pulse Only

Tenants can choose to use [Pulse](https://docs.flagright.com/docs/flagright-api/ZG9jOjQxNDY3MTEw-4-pulse-dynamic-risk-scoring) only without leveraging the rest of the Flagright offerings. Further, you can choose to use subcomponents of the Pulse itself if you want to publish limited data on Flagright platform. Namely, you can consume KYCS (KYC risk score) only by publishing user data only; or ARS (Action risk score) only by publishing event/transaction data only; or the DRS (Dynamic risk score) by publishing both types of data.

Pulse can be easily isolated from [Beacon](docs/3.-beacon.md).
